Brief: A big part of what people want to use Catalyst for is exploring causal chains. For example, if the Strait of Hormuz opening would lead to a decrease in oil prices, they want to know exactly why and how to audit that. They also want to know what would happen if some of these downstream events were different (say the Strait of Hormuz opened but Iran was struck the next day, how would oil prices change then?)

For this assignment, we want to design and build a tool that creates and visualizes causal chains based off of hypothesized events, specifically for a financial use case. Users should then be able to explore the “multiverse” of events by modifying individual events in the chain and seeing what the downstream effects of that change are.

Some things that people are going to want to do is see how black swan events affect their risks, what events could lead to stop losses/take profits, whether certain hypothesized events will actually lead to the financial effects they want, etc.

___

The format of this deliverable can be whatever you want, but it should both be engaging for users to explore through, as well as easily understandable and actually useful. We want to balance both form and function. The exact design and functionality is up to you! We want to see how you explore and take this basic idea.

The final stage of the tool should help the user create a thesis/strategy that they can trade on.

Remember that users have two main use cases here:

1. Is there a reasonable chain going from Event A to a concluding Event B? (Does the Strait of Hormuz opening logically lead to oil prices decreasing?)

Or

2. Given Event A, what are some Event B, C,Ds I can trade on? (If the Strait of Hormuz opens, what are the downstream events?)
___

Example Inputs:
The Strait of Hormuz is going to open next week.

Republicans win the House but Democrats take the senate during the Midterm.

Models more capable than Fable get export restricted by the United States.

Photonic chips get adopted faster than expected.

Good Reads for Inspiration:
Metaculus
https://www.astralcodexten.com/p/the-ai-superforecasters-are-here
https://futuresearch.ai/
